Mulitple realizability in brain organoids
"What I cannot build, I do not understand..." Richard Feynman

Early neurophysiological studies of the visual system painted a picture of rigid hierarchy. The Nobel-prize winning model by Hubel and Wiesel is summarized in Fig.1. Beginning with photon detection in the retina, the center-surround retinal ganglion cell output leads to center-surround receptive fields of thalamic neurons onto 'simple' edge-detecting neurons in layer IV of the cortex whose combined inputs then lead to complex feature (e.g. movement or object) detecting neurons in layer II/III of the visual cortex. This heirarchical model depends on precise wiring between cells and microcircuits of the visual system. (Fig.1A)

Although systems neuroscience has moved beyond these early models, they are the first models of brain systems taught to most researchers and remain influential today. In the trenches of todays's translational brain organoid neuroscience a prevalent dogma goes something like this: if we can recreate the precise wiring and microcircuitry of brain area X (e.g the visual cortex) in a dish, then we should be able to create a functioning area X as a consequence of that precise structure. 

Tremendous work has been put into identifying organoid protocols that reliably recreate immunohistochemical markers of cortical layers/different molecular subtypes of neurons/neural morphologies closest to the brain structure that the organoid is modeling. Much less work, mostly due to technical limitations, has gone into determining function in brain organoids. Given the enormous resources needed for these projects, researchers have systematically focused on recreating precise structure, implicitly assuming accurate structure is absolutely needed to recreate function. 

Curiously, if modern systems neuroscience is to be believed, this percieved requirement might be overly strict. Over the past few decades, as the ability of neurophysiologists to record electrical activity from more and more neurons in behaving animals has gone up, a consensus is building that a given brain area's function/s can be realized using multiple combinations of molecular and structural parameters. Function may be realized in multiple structural ways!

To understand why structure might not dictate function as strictly as we think, we must revisit David Marr. Working at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory in the late 1970s, Marr proposed a framework for understanding information processing systems that remains relevant today. He argued that to understand a system like the visual cortex, one must analyze it at three distinct levels: the computational level (what is the goal?), the algorithmic level (what are the representations and processes?), and the implementation level (the physical hardware).

Let us take the visual cortex, restricting ourselves to V1 (the fential and is directly relevant to our grand ambition of reconstructing a functional piece of cortex in a dish. Obviously, to achieve our goal, we need to measure and understand cortical function at least enough to know whether we are making any progress. What would this mean in practice? Marr's three levels of understanding as applied to the visual system are shown in Fig.1B. 

At the computational level, individual V1 neurons respond to a preferred orientation angle of a visual stimulus, amongst other stimulus features. When hundreds or thousands of them are recorded simultaneously, using high-density silicon probes or optical techniques, the population activity has been shown to trace out a smooth circular path called a neural manifold. The manifold is a low-dimensional smooth path within a high-dimensional space where each dimension is the activity of every recorded neuron. These manifolds are stable and seem to be reporting the stimulus's orientation angle to higher visual areas. Furthermore, these manifolds have been shown to be predictive of neural responses across members of a species, suggesting they are a useful surrogate for the computation (stimulus orientation here) being done by V1. This is remarkable given that individual neuron activity is quite variable, how is population activity so reliable as to convey useful information between individuals? To tie it to Marr's levels, the mechanistic / implementation level is well-known to be variable (e.g. ion channel expression, synaptic strengths even dendritic spines), yet somehow, the neural manifolds at the computational level can be exchanged between individuals. 

Even more remarkably, consider the mammalian V1 and its avian analogue the Wulst or hyperpallium. Fig. 2 shows their cytoarchitecture which are seemingly very different anatomically yet at a computational level they seem to respond to the same features of the stimulus including orientation etc. Although HD silicon probe or optical recordings haven't been done in the avian structure and their given their very distinct cytoarchitectures, neural manifolds might be different in 


Conclusion
